# Node.js Foundation Package Maintenance Team Meeting 2019-08-27

## Links

* **Recording**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xoechcRhX-M
* **GitHub Issue**: https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/issues/242

## Present

* Package Maintenance team: @nodejs/package-maintenance
  * Darcy Clarke (@darcyclarke)
  * Michael Dawson (@mhdawsson)
  * Dominykas Bly.. (@dominykas)
  * Wes Todd (@wesleytodd)
  * Glenn Hinks (@ghinks)
  * Lucas Holmquist (@lholmquist) 
  * Emily Platzer (@craftninja)
  * Joel Chen (@jchip)
  * Edgar Muentes (@emuentes)
  * Jordan Harband (@ljharb)
  * Manuel Spigolon (@eomm)

## Agenda

## Announcements
 
*Extracted from **package-maintenance-agenda** labelled issues and pull requests from the **nodejs org** prior to the meeting.

* No announcements this week

### nodejs/package-maintenance

* [Document the current 'top 10' express' issues](https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/issues/233#issuecomment-524698030 )
  * Discussed in Express TSC meeting how to best surface the 10 ten issues. Decided to build tool - https://expressjs.github.io/statusboard
  * Edgar opened: https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/issues/245 AND https://github.com/expressjs/discussions/issues/90
  * Wait until next week to see if ready to try to promote/drive work towards issues

* OpenJS Foundation project progression [#238](https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/issues/238 )
  * Going to add links for how to join the two groups
  * Remove from agenda.

* Standard grammar/keywords to reference node release lines [#236](https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/issues/236 )
  *  Next action was for @BethGriggs to get us some feedback from the Release team

* Support file [#220](https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/pull/220 )
  * Discussed in package-maintenance meeting. Plan is to:
    * Land as is, it is draft still anyways
    * Write up blog which introduces it along with some of the contentious points (live/not live)
    * Use feedback after blog post to revise
    * Then promote to 'non-draft'
  * This might be an overlap: https://github.com/npm/cli/pull/187
  * Issue has been opened to see if people working on funding would like to collaborate:
    https://github.com/feross/funding/issues/15.
  * Volunteers to work on blog post
    * Darcy
    * Michael
    * Manuel
    * Glenn
  * Michael will send out issue to kick off work on the Blog post

* support field to support "license" [#218](https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/issues/218 )
  * Can  be closed once we merge 220

* \[baseline practices\] .npmignore or package.json files [#164](https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/issues/164 )
  * PR submitted, comments being addressed.

* We ran out of time and did not discuss these, will cover next meeting:
  * Reach out to Travis to get option that includes [#205](https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/issues/205 )
  * Next steps on Support levels in Package.json [#192](https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/issues/192 )
  * Which Problems Node.js OSS maintainers/authors face today? [#113](https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/issues/113 )

## Project Board Review (maybe, if time permits).

Ask participants about the state of [Project Board](https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/projects/1) and necessary changes if time permits.

  * Ran out of time, not covered this week.

## Q&A, Other

## Upcoming Meetings

* **Node.js Foundation Calendar**: https://nodejs.org/calendar

Click `+GoogleCalendar` at the bottom right to add to your own Google calendar.


