# Node.js  Package Maintenance Team Meeting 2020-03-10

## Links

* **Recording**: https://youtu.be/BPDDCS9WhRQ
* **GitHub Issue**: https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/issues/324

## Present


* Package Maintenance team: @nodejs/package-maintenance
* Michael Dawson (@mhdawson)
* Glenn Hinks (@ghinks)
* Andrew Hughes (@andrewhughes101)
* Wes Todd (@wesleytodd)
* Dominykas Blyžė (@dominykas)
* Owen Buckley (@thescientist13)
* Darcy Clarke (@darcyclarke)
* Jordan Harband (@LJHarb)
* Beth Griggs (@BethGriggs)

## Agenda

## Announcements
 
*Extracted from **package-maintenance-agenda** labelled issues and pull requests from the **nodejs org** prior to the meeting.

* Darcy - [npm Open RFC Deep Dive, on Workspaces @ 2PM Eastern](https://github.com/npm/rfcs/issues/106)

### nodejs/package-maintenance

* Shared CI configurations [#321](https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/issues/321)
  * Some questions, lets see if we can agree.
  * How do we name the repo and how do we structure it
    * Michael 1 versus multiple repos
    * Current setup requires you to reference a org/repo.  Means that it must be separate repo
      * For travis can reference by path and 
      * For GitHub actions, believe it is not the case, we can ask.
      * Circle CI also be org/repo
   * Readme seems clearer if scoped to one.  
   * Can have different maintainers, teams to manage
  * Next questions was names, agreed on: 
    * nodejs/ci-config-travis
    * nodejs/ci-config-github-actions   

* \[RFC\] Governance Models and Methodologies for Package Maintainers [#309](https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/issues/309)
  * Some good discussion about 2 things
    * One is index for the docs directory. Owen is going to PR index into docs
      directory and we can work on it there.
    * Second is for governance docs itself.  Owen is going to review some [a]
      Existing ones and then start on that.

* \[Baseline practices\] Keeping dependencies and node up to date [#280](https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/issues/280)
  * Nothing to discuss separate from issue 321, removing the agenda tag.
  * Wes has anybody started a doc yet.
  * Dominikas has a PR open, some comments that need to be addressed
  * Wes working on internal doc, may have time to add some ideas into the
    existing doc..

* PkgJS Org for WG supported tooling [#271](https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/issues/271)
  * will be discussed in TSC meeting tomorrow
  * Good discussion of pros/cons in the meeting, in the end we decided to
    stick with the request as is and see what the TSC feedback is.

* Document the current 'top 10' express' issues [#233](https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/issues/233)[b]
  * In case anyone was wondering, we have good progress happening on Expres 5 and the repo captains. Thanks Gireesh for pushing things forward!

* Next steps on Support levels in Package.json [#192](https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/issues/192)
  * Skip until next teim

## Project Board Review (maybe, if time permits).


Ask participants about the state of [Project Board](https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/projects/1) and necessary changes if time permits.


## Q&A, Other


## Upcoming Meetings


* **Node.js Foundation Calendar**: https://nodejs.org/calendar


Click `+GoogleCalendar` at the bottom right to add to your own Google calendar.




[a]Owen is going to review some  +owenbuckley13@gmail.com
_Assigned to Owen Buckley_
[b]I removed the label for this.  Not sure why it keeps making it on the agenda.  If no one has comments feel free to remove it.
