# Node.js Foundation Package Maintenance Team Meeting 2020-02-25

## Links

* **Recording**: https://youtu.be/AUcwU_zUqcI 
* **GitHub Issue**: https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/issues/318

## Present

* Michael Dawson (@mhdawson)
* Lucas Holmquist (@lholmquist)
* Andrew Hughes (@andrewhughes101)
* Dominykas Blyžė (@dominykas)
* Bethany Griggs (@BethGriggs)
* Glenn Hinks (@ghinks)
* Steven (@styfle)

## Agenda

## Announcements
 
*Extracted from **package-maintenance-agenda** labelled issues and pull requests from the **nodejs org** prior to the meeting.

### nodejs/package-maintenance

* Meeting: Test Tooling Breakout Session [#307](https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/issues/307)
  * meeting held
  * update here: https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/issues/307#issuecomment-587010238
  * Andrew Hughes may have time soon to look at the first part of the prototype.

* \[Baseline practices\] Keeping dependencies and node up to date [#280](https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/issues/280)
  * Around standard Travis configs, so people can opt in based on their policy
  * Also discussion of extending to other ci environments as well
  * Current point is discussion around getting a new repo for storing the configs
  * Michael, do we have a name for the repo?
  * Could make sense to have separate repos as repo.  But maybe one repo
    with directory for each ci. 
  * Do we want a separate org?
  * Current, would be in the order of 3 repos (travis, github repos) 
  * Lets list the options in the issue and then get input from the larger team.
 
* PkgJS Org for WG supported tooling [#271](https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/issues/271)
  * Issue opened in Node.js admin repo.  Discussion ongoing

* Document the current 'top 10' express' issues [#233](https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/issues/233)
  * Glen, triage is going pretty well. Number of open issues are going done.
  * Will get back to Wes’ top 10 soon
  * There are about John Church and Glen looking at Express repo.  Gireesh
    has been looking at other repos.
  * Glen with reach out to Gireesh, Wes, and John and to see if we can set
    up some sort of interlock, possibly in the Express TSC meeting.
  * Issues don’t properly get closed, rules around how to get them closed. For
    example getting some rules/guidance around  when to close.
  * Andrew, looking at timeouts in Express Board, will create WIP PR
    in pkgs repo to fix that soon (next couple of days)

* Next steps on Support levels in Package.json [#192](https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/issues/192)
  * From the issue, and the next steps, first step is complete to update to incorporate the
    funding field from NPM.
  * Michael took action to reach out to eomm and Wes to discuss how we update the tool
    as they did most of the work on the tool so far.

## Project Board Review (maybe, if time permits).

Ask participants about the state of [Project Board](https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/projects/1) and necessary changes if time permits.

## Q&A, Other

## Upcoming Meetings

* **Node.js Foundation Calendar**: https://nodejs.org/calendar

Click `+GoogleCalendar` at the bottom right to add to your own Google calendar.
