# Node.js  Package Maintenance Team Meeting 2023-07-18

## Links

* **Recording**:  <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l-m2NA2_KS0>
* **GitHub Issue**: <https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/issues/568>

## Present

* Michael Dawson (@mhdawson)
* Ruy Adorno (@ruyadorno)
* Luke Holmquist(@lholmquist)
* Ethan Arrowood (@Ethan-Arrowood)
* Darcy Clarke (@darcyclarke)

## Agenda

## Announcements

*Extracted from **package-maintenance-agenda** labelled issues and pull requests from the **nodejs org** prior to the meeting.

### nodejs/package-maintenance

* Goals for 2023 [#550](https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/issues/550)
  * have issues to cover work for the goals, PR includes issues for all of them to track
    work going forward.

* Create doc on how to support ESM and CommonJS when publishing modules [#542](https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/issues/542)
  * Next action is for @ljharb to write up some suggestions.

* Status update and next steps for "pkgjs/create" (create-pkg) [#458](https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/issues/458)
  * Wes is going to mainly own it, while Ethan works on Package.json collaboration space. The
    two seem aligned and we need the research to progress before we take pkgjs/create to
    Much further.

* Darcy talked us through the items on <https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/issues/569>

* Collab summit proposal
  * Darcy is going to put together a proposal for the collab summit.

## Project Board Review (maybe, if time permits)

Ask participants about the state of [Project Board](https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/projects/1) and necessary changes if time permits.

## Q&A, Other

## Upcoming Meetings

* **Node.js Project Calendar**: <https://nodejs.org/calendar>

Click `+GoogleCalendar` at the bottom right to add to your own Google calendar.
