# Node.js  Package Maintenance Team Meeting 2024-07-30

## Links

* **Recording**:  <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=485SuvvBuMI>
* **GitHub Issue**: <https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/issues/608>

## Present

* Michael Dawson (@mhdawson)
* Yordis Prieto (@yordis)
* Darcy Clarke (@darcyclarke)
* Jordan Harband (@ljharb)
* Rick Markins (@rxmarbles)
* Wes Todd (@wesleytodd)
* Trivikram Kamat (@trivikr)
* Leo Balter (@leobalter)

## Agenda

## Announcements

*Extracted from **package-maintenance-agenda** labelled issues and pull requests from the **nodejs org** prior to the meeting.

* Wes: shoutout. Initial work was to help out some key packages. There was an attempt on Express which petered out. But recent work has revived and there is an active set of TC members on the Express side now and if there is anybody who would like to get involved now is a good time.

### nodejs/package-maintenance

feat: next steps for version management progress [606](ttps://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/pull/606)

* This PR is trying to wrap up what was discussed in the OpenJS channel and see if we could get some consensus.
* Wes -> did a quick overview of the prior steps and pointed out that point 4 in the PR is the controversial one.
* Michael -> We had previous indicated that that the bootstrap component should install both Node.js and corepack, and Node.js should not be the bootstrap component in -> <https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/blob/main/docs/version-management/proposal-revise-downloads-page.md>
* Jordan, my understanding of the history is that corepack was to help get yarn installed with Node.js.
* Yordis, concerned about breakage if Corepack is removed.
* Darcy, can access it independent from core, so it can still be used if its not part of core.
  Already settled that npm is not going to be removed by past discussions.
* Wes, debating on what to reply to. Often times the discussion has strayed into non-technical  feedback. The reason the working groups exist, is to foster collaboration. When corepack was added there was no working group, so skipped the consensus step. Want to work towards consensus in this group but need more involvement from corepack maintainers.
* Jordan, everybody wants zero politics, but that does matter for humans. Node.js job is not to
  be fair, but to helps its users.
* Wes, good to move to what next steps would be.
  * Agree we could recommend that the status quo stays, keep corepack as experimental. But
    don’t want to see is discussion continue to swirl. But that keeps things in limbo.
* Wes, will take action to refactor point 4 into what has been discussed.
* Ruben, main concern is around how many people are going to be broken. Experimental
  features can continue to grow even if we kind of say don’t use it. We need to go back to
  making users life easier. We should concentrate on that versus corepack.
* Wes, the intent from the goals was to focus on the making users life easier. Unfortunately the
  conversation has been around either enabling by default or removing.

* Wishlist on managing package manager versions in a Node.js application [609](https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/issues/609)
  * Skipped as we ran out of time

* globally installing npm should not be the recommended way for Mac and Linux [#591](https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/issues/591)
  * Skipped as we ran out of time

* Create doc on how to support ESM and CommonJS when publishing modules [#542](https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/issues/542)
  * Skipped as we ran out of time

* Status update and next steps for "pkgjs/create" (create-pkg) [#458](https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/issues/458)
  * Skipped as we ran out of time

## Project Board Review (maybe, if time permits)

Ask participants about the state of [Project Board](https://github.com/nodejs/package-maintenance/projects/1) and necessary changes if time permits.

## Q&A, Other

## Upcoming Meetings

* **Node.js Project Calendar**: <https://nodejs.org/calendar>

Click `+GoogleCalendar` at the bottom right to add to your own Google calendar.
